with the drought intensifying
the night shift is particularly busy
there should be plenty of opportunities
for a young leopard
leopards have superb night vision
we do not
we must rely on infrared cameras to
experience the leopard's nighttime world
water still remains the focus of
activity after dark
but now thirsty animals must beware of
both crocs
and leopards
[Music]
hunting takes practice
at first he appears indecisive
but stalking a jackal brings an
unexpected bonus
the warm night air carries the scent of
a recently killed chittel stag
[Music]
the jackal must work quickly to make the
most of this chance
[Music]
the leopard could chase him off the kill
at any moment
the jackal runs but it's not the
youngster that spooked him
the real owner of the carcass is
returning
a huge adult male
[Music]
it might be a good idea to move on
leopards are the most versatile of all
the big cats
adept at finding cover in the most
unpromising places
[Music]
the steep walls of the gully are now her
cover
for an ambush
the male puku is close enough but he's
too big to tackle
[Music]
she needs to slip past him without being
seen
if he spots her he'll blow her cover
[Music]
slowly does it
to succeed here she needs to find prey
grazing
close to the edge or better still
in the gully itself
[Music]
so
frustration
success would have staved off hunger for
a week
but while there's prey around there's
hope
peaking over the top is a risk but it's
the quickest way to find a new target
[Music]
oh
[Applause]
a burst of speed of 65 kilometers an
hour
and it's all over in less than six
seconds
except it isn't
[Music]
dazed and disorientated the impala makes
a miraculous escape
[Music]
the leopard is sat probably 15 or 20
meters away from us
and although she's so close her sandy
spotted coloration just disappears in
amongst these grasses
and it's just sat up
she's moving
just moving forward slightly so we can
see her and it started
raining there look at that oh my
goodness
that is so beautiful
it's our first clear look at the leopard
and we can see the warthog's blood on
its fur
[Applause]
there's a den there at the base of that
termite mound
and she's going in she's going in
no
just can't seem to make up her mind it
just shows how difficult life is for a
predator here
everything that they might want to eat
has tusks
horns hooves just imagine what it would
be like if every single time you wanted
to have a meal
you had to put your life at risk that's
effectively what's happening for this
leopard here
if that warthog's still alive it's still
a mortal danger to her
and yet it's just another day in the
life of one of africa's top predators
this standoff could go on for hours even
days
the light and our time is running out
and kit
is beginning to die but our leopard
isn't done yet
right down here and looking straight at
me
and coming out into the open i
do not believe this this is africa's
most elusive
most secretive cat just wandering around
trying to figure out what her next move
is going to be
i have never seen anything like this in
my life
if she gets any closer guys don't move a
muscle
knowing that she's perfectly capable of
springing into the back of our truck in
an instant
certainly heightens the nerves
she's closer than any of us had ever
dared hope
[Music]
an amur leopard the rarest cat
on earth winter is a difficult time for
this hunter
there are no leaves for cover and no
young prey animals
this female has the added pressure of
having to provide for her one-year-old
cub
it will be another 12 months before
he'll be able to fend for himself
[Music]
the bickering vultures have abandoned
the carcass
it's a valuable discovery for the
leopards
[Music]
but the cub doesn't share its mother's
sense of urgency
[Music]
the vultures have left behind plenty of
good meat
but it's stiff with frost
the mother works to open the hide and
make feeding a little easier
for her cub
[Music]
there are only 40 ammo leopards left in
the wild
and that number is still falling
the harshness of the winter here hinders
their increase in numbers
it takes one of these females longer to
raise her young to independence
than it does a leopard in africa
[Music]
if the mother can sustain her cub for a
few more weeks spring
will bring an increase in prey and her
task
will lighten
marco gather for their annual rut
males must fight for the right to breed
but on these sheer cliffs
any slip by either animal could be fatal
a snow leopard the rarest of himalayan
animals
it's a female returning to her lair
these are the first intimate images of
snow leopard
ever filmed in the wild
[Music]
she greets her one-year-old cub
her den is well chosen it has
exceptional views of the surrounding
cliffs
on these treacherous slopes no hunter
other
than the snow leopard would have a
chance of catching such
agile prey
[Music]
a female with young makes an easier
target
her large paws give an excellent grip
and that long tail helps her balance
[Music]
silently she positions herself above her
prey
[Music]
uh
[Applause]
okay
[Music]
you